USA TODAY's out with a new poll this
week what does it show about what could
be driving and in shaping the
president's thinking you know we see the
president not doing well with his
response to the coronavirus you see
approval for him going down in our poll
he now trails Joe Biden by 10 percentage
points nationwide in a head-to-head and
we find a big appetite for a more
activist federal government people a
majority of Americans and that includes
both Republicans and independents and
Democrats think the federal government
ought to be doing more I mean I think
when Americans look at what Larry Hogan
said in Maryland he's protecting those
tests using the National Guard he's
protecting them from federal seizure
he's trying to protect his state
interest because he feels the federal
government might work against those
interest part of the result I think of
the president not taking more forceful
national action when it comes to taking
care of the supply chain on these things
are taking more control over when states
close and open back up that's something
he has definitely left to the states
Phil what are we hearing about this new
target of China on the president's radar
because he keeps attacking them publicly
but is he actually going to take action
against China well Bob he has threatened
to take action the president has said
he's considering it and sort of vaguely
said that he would that he thinks China
should be punished he has found ways and
really over many weeks now to point the
finger at China to blame the Chinese for
allowing this virus to escape its
borders for allowing it to spread first
of course to Europe but then here to the
United States but it's unclear what
action that will be exactly the one
thing driving the president is he wants
to appear tough on China he sees this as
a central campaign issue he's trying to
draw a contrast with Vice President
Biden who of course was part of the
Obama administration and the so-called
pivot to Asia several years ago and so
Trump is trying to use this coronavirus
pandemic as a way to posture him his
administration visa vie China in a way
that would help him in the fall campaign
but it's unclear what specific actions
he
would take he has not spelled that out
in detail and we Joe what are your
impressions as a White House reporter
you saw Kayleigh Mac in any of the new
press secretary at the lectern today
you see President Trump doing less of
these two-hour daily briefings what's
going on with the new chief of staff
mark meadows the new press secretary is
there a shift in their whole approach to
their management of this I think they
had to make a change after they saw how
the president was performing when he was
sort of you know at the podium and
spitballing in many ways free-falling in
other ways with these really long
extended briefings that he was using
also as a platform to replace those
campaign rallies that he was no longer
having and I think that team saw overall
it was not helping him and they had to
change something over the weekend the
president said it was not worth it for
him to have the briefings of course
that's not true because at his core he
is the communicator and messenger in
chief and he's not going to relinquish
that power so what we saw this week was
him doing the same thing taking
questions from the press but doing it in
a different setting so it was in a much
more formal setting and he was less
combative which was apparent as far as
his press secretary I think it's a big
shift from her predecessor because she
was at the podium today and you know I
don't think we should give her too much
credit for doing her job but certainly
it is a stark difference from the
previous press secretary Stephanie
Grisham who didn't have a single press
briefing so I think Kaley mcenany you
know she was out there we knew that this
was going to be the strategy to get in
front of any bad messaging and try to
transition that to something positive
for the president which we certainly saw
her at least attempt to do today and you
Miche you're in that briefing room but I
was struck by one of your reports this
week on Newshour about reporting on the
country which is really where it really
matters and where people are feeling
this economic pain and you see the
economic numbers and state after state
so troubling
what have you learned this week about
how the summer looks for many Americans
with the rising unemployment rate with
jobs not coming back in many sectors
people frankly are scared Bob they're
scared for their futures they're scared
for their families they're scared
whether or not they're going to be able
to survive and thrive in a financial and
an emotional way when it comes to this
outbreak
what you're seeing is jobless numbers
that we just have never seen before and
the president is saying that he's
hopeful that in the third or fourth
quarter this year things will get back
to pop being positive but what we know
is that Americans are gonna keep some of
the behaviors that they've kept one and
learned throughout this outbreak when
will we see big long lines at
restaurants again that might not come
back and bounce back in the same way
even if mayors and governors that
continue to open up their economy so I
think what we're gonna see is there
gonna be a lot of essential workers and
when I say essential workers I'm
thinking of people that are also grocery
store people that are people that are
serving food that those people who are
central to our society and the
functioning of our society that those
people might be the most out of luck so
I think that there are just a lot of
people who are really afraid I want to
also add what we was just talking about
when it comes to the press secretary
because there was just such a big
difference today the big overall
difference that I saw was that while the
messaging is the same when you look at
Kayleigh mackaninee what you get from
her it's I think a less harsh she was
pushing back on reporters but in a way
that seemed a little bit slicker and I
think as soon as she walked out I
thought this is someone who president
Trump will likely like because she's
someone who has already cut her teeth on
network TV auditioning for the job
almost in defending the president even
before she met him Susan you're writing
the book on speaker Pelosi I can't wait
to read it and she said this week she
wants a trillion dollars in this next
round of legislation to help States to
address many of the concerns that you
Miche just brought up that she's hearing
from people out in the country how
realistic is it that Congress is going
to come together because we know Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell he wants
liability protection for businesses as
part of this package if he's going to
give any money to States well the
Congress has approved an extraordinary
amount of spending already and in a
pretty quick fashion and in a reasonably
bipartisan way but I think that's going
to be tougher with this next bill that
they're working on because the Democrats
are going to insist on funding for state
and local governments Republicans have
been left
enthusiastic about that Mitch McConnell
who is a conservative problem with some
history of worrying about debts and
deficits some of those concerns may
become a little bit more to the fore
Republicans want to look at liability
protection for employers and others so
it seems to me there's gonna be it's
going to be perhaps a longer process
than we've seen but we do see a big
appetite for government spending by
people who feel they are just under
water under fire under siege and are
really looking to the government to help
them out and that has been a philosophy
that's been a sense of the country that
has propelled to Congress to make some
of these extraordinary expenditures so
far Phil to wrap up this discussion
about the White House I want to start go
back to where we started the the raw
politics driving so much of this and the
post and others have reported this week
the President had a private exchange
with Brad parse Cal his campaign manager
pretty tense based on the reporting what
have you heard that
that's right Bob the president on
Wednesday was confronted by Brad par
skills campaign manager as well as
Ronnie McDaniel the chairwoman of the
Republican National Committee who
brought him a fresh batch of internal
polling and it actually showed Trump
losing to Joe Biden it not only showed
him losing to Biden but showed that
these press briefings that he's been
doing every day were really taking a
toll on his political standing and were
damaging and the president erupted at
his aides he said that he didn't believe
the numbers he said that he can't
possibly be losing to Biden that he
thinks people like his briefings and it
was a tense exchange and an acrimonious
back-and-forth with par scale that
extended for two days to the point where
the president threatened to sue his
campaign manager although it's not clear
if he was being serious about that
they've since patched it up and this is
reporting by the way from our colleague
and friend Josh Stassi but it's a sign
of how much the political standing
credibility fortunes of this president
hang in the balance because of the
pandemic
you